Ozone is an allotrope of which element?
     Your Answer: Oxygen
  Correct Answer: Oxygen

Which element is named after the Greek word for "the Earth"?
     Your Answer: Tellurium
  Correct Answer: Tellurium

Which alkali metal is used in mood stabilizers?
     Your Answer: Lithium
  Correct Answer: Lithium

At standard atmospheric conditions what is the melting point of oxygen?
     Your Answer: 54.36K
  Correct Answer: 54.36K

Which element is named after the Greek for "heavy / dense"?
     Your Answer: Tungsten
  Correct Answer: Barium

Select the correct order for these elements, discovery year; lowest to highest ...
     Your Answer: Yttrium, Scandium, Cobalt, Xenon, Lithium
  Correct Answer: Cobalt, Yttrium, Lithium, Scandium, Xenon

Thorium was discovered by which Swedish scientist?
     Your Answer: Carl Mosander
  Correct Answer: Jons Berzelius

Which symbol is used to represent bromine?
     Your Answer: Br
  Correct Answer: Br

Which element in the Periodic Table has the highest density?
     Your Answer: Iridium
  Correct Answer: Iridium

Which is the most abundant member of the Rare Earth elements?
     Your Answer: Cerium
  Correct Answer: Cerium

Xenon was discovered by which two scientists in 1898?
     Your Answer: Dirk Coster and George Hevesy
  Correct Answer: Sir William Ramsey and M. W. Travers

Which transition metal usually occurs in ilmenite and rutile?
     Your Answer: Titanium
  Correct Answer: Titanium

Which element gets its symbol from the latin word "argentum"?
     Your Answer: Silver
  Correct Answer: Silver

In 1826 Antoine Balard discovered which halogen?
     Your Answer: Iodine
  Correct Answer: Bromine

Which symbol is used to represent dysprosium?
     Your Answer: Dy
  Correct Answer: Dy

Which metal gets its name from the Greek words for "generate" and "acid"?
     Your Answer: Hydrogen
  Correct Answer: Oxygen

Which of these is not a member of the lanthanide series?
     Your Answer: Gadolinium
  Correct Answer: Thorium

What percentage of "sterling silver" is silver?
     Your Answer: 92.5
  Correct Answer: 92.5

Which is the element to be named after another element?
     Your Answer: Radon
  Correct Answer: Radon

Rubidium is a member of which group?
     Your Answer: Alkali metals
  Correct Answer: Alkali metals

Which symbol is used to represent dubnium?
     Your Answer: Db
  Correct Answer: Db

Bromine is a member of which group?
     Your Answer: Halogens
  Correct Answer: Halogens

Which gas makes up about 21% of the atmosphere (by volume)?
     Your Answer: Oxygen
  Correct Answer: Oxygen

Cryloite is added to aluminium ore ...
     Your Answer: To reduce the melting point
  Correct Answer: To reduce the melting point

Which element is named after the ancient name for Paris?
     Your Answer: Lutetium
  Correct Answer: Lutetium

